
The goal of the project is to predict click-through rates (CTR) using the Criteo advertising data provided from the Kaggle data competition. CTR is the number of clicks that an advertisement receives divided by the number of times the advertisement is shown. CTR prediction is important for online advertisers as it can help advertisers determine the ranking of listings to given users for their query searches. Listings ranked higher on query searches are better able to get user attention, leading to more potential spending. Therefore, accurate CTR prediction enables advertisers to effectively show the right advertisement to the right user at the right time. We look to predict CTR on the Criteo data using feature engineering and modeling techniques learned through this course.

We use logistic regression and random forest algorithm approaches to minimize log loss. As mentioned in the reference paper, Aryafar, et al. (2017), log loss is often used as an indicator for model performance in online advertising. Minimizing log loss indicates that the conditional probability of clicking on an ad given a query by the user should converge to the expected click rate By minimizing log loss, we attempted to achieve convergence of the conditional probability of a click occurring with a query being issued by a user on a given advertisement listing. In the dataset 25% of the data is the predicted class. A model would improve on guessing the same class for all outcomes; we aim to train a model that will have precision and recall higher than 25%.
